## Background

The goal of this repository is to find a fast, scalable way to determine whether multiple
applications may be run concurrently on the same node and stay within memory limits.

Sample data is generated by generateData.py and stored in the data/ directory as csv files.

`scheduleHeuristic.py` offers a rudimentary approach of shifting runs forward in time so that
the total memory used by all runs never exceeds the limit.

`scheduleILP.py` offers a more refined approach that minimizes the total runtime (the "makespan")
while keeping total memory usage and CPU utilization under user-defined limits.

### Install

You'll need the dependencies in `requirements.txt`. Install them with:

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Generate

Generate the sample datasets with:

```sh
python generateData.py
```

### Run ILP

Run the ILP scheduler with:

```sh
python scheduleILP.py
```

The ILP minimizes the "makespan," which is the total runtime of all applications together,
while maintaining the following constraints:

1. Each run begins exactly once.

2. The total memory can never exceed `MAX_MEMORY` (a constant defined at the top of the script)

3. The total CPU utilization can never exceed `MAX_CPU` (another constant)

### Run Heuristic

For the heuristic approach, run:

```sh
python scheduleHeuristic.py
```

This script finds points of the summed memory curve that exceed the `MAX_MEMORY` threshold,
and then shifts non-baseline plots from that point to the nearest minimum of the summed curve.

>[!WARNING]
> This approach is not robust and can cause
> infinite loops under tight memory conditions.
> We have hard-coded the algorithm to exit
> after 25 iterations to prevent this.
